---
layout: post
title: "A prayer"
date: 2001-09-11 19:59
comments: true
categories: Life in General
author: Oliver Thylmann
---


I'll take this from a TMF discussion board:

http://boards.fool.com/Message.asp?mid=15723559

&lt;I&gt;Pray. Pray hard. Please.

I've already been in tears. I pray for all of heaven to descend on these sites and that clarity cut through the confusion. I pray that those who have survived make their way to safety. I pray that peace comes to those close to those that have been made victims. I pray for those responsible that they see how wrong they are and stop this insanity. I pray that any response be one of justice and not of retribution. I pray for forgiveness that my first reaction was one of anger. I pray that this is over now. I am not afraid to ask you all to join me.

- John Scofield &lt;/I&gt;

I might not be very religious but this is very well put.

I'll add this from one of the people I value very highly, also from TMF (http://boards.fool.com/Message.asp?mid=15725253)

&lt;I&gt;In the days and weeks that follow, many accusations will be raised. In our despair at the devastation of what has happened, I pray we do not allow racial/religious hatred to play a part.

There is a chance, perhaps a good chance, that this &quot;bin Laden&quot; idiot is involved. If so, then it has been an idiot's campaign, not an Arab/Muslim one. These are not the same thing.

Good Muslims are just as horrified by what has happened as you are. The faith of Islam is a kind one, based on many of the same fundamentals as more Western religions. It is terribly important that we remember this.

If an isolated group of &quot;pinheads&quot;, in the name of Allah, have done this beastly deed, than THEY must be held accountable. Allah didn't deem this as right, and I'm sure the mullahs of Morocco, and Egypt, and Arabia, and Iran, and Pakistan, and even Afghanistan will agree. 

This is NOT a Muslim thing! This is a terrorist thing. The Pope doesn't support bombings in Belfast for the same reason.

In our efforts to prosecute the guilty, remember that whoever did this has sinned under Islamic Law as well.


seansan &lt;/I&gt;


