---
layout: post
title: "TMA2 Done"
date: 2001-03-31 16:08
comments: true
categories: Life in General
author: Oliver Thylmann
---


Just submitted my Second TMA to the OU. That one was a lot harder to write then the first one but I think that I did ok. Some of the parts are better and others worse. But that is just how it is :) The first one got me 77 of 100 points, which seems to be very good, as you are really only going over 85% very rarely. 100 is not achievable as they would ask something like &quot;ok, this guy has been perfect right? Nothing that could be improved? No better wording or other idea that could be introduced somewhere?&quot;.

Otherwise, I have not posted a lot in the last few days. Well I have been very busy. Seems like our server from Dell should be done soon and I also have the tax stuff settled. Seems like you can import servers in the US without a problem and only need to pay a 0.21% handling fee, which is ok really. The server will be send to brussels and I will pick it up there and bring it here. Might be an idea to set it up in our place I figure rather than over in the US. We will see.

The other thing is that I have installed FreeBSD on my desktop and I must say that I really like it. KDE2 is looking rather nice. But then I tried using drag and drop to play an MP3 file with x11amp. Boy does BeOS get you spoiled :)

I had the idea that a ports section like in FreeBSD would be a great thing for BeOS. That would really rock. Just get apache installed and php4 and mysql, have a few depends there and you are ready to rock. Just update that with the help of BeBits each day and people can update that section also. Then they can just automatically be queried for action if some software is updated. Would be really cool. I think we need BONE so we can run httpd and php4 and mysql or something as this would really rock. I just like having that on my box. Hmmm... 

Well I need to get ready for a birthday party today, so see you all soon and have a great day everyone, life rocks.

&quot;If the average internet user gets a subpoena... he's not going to the big law firm around the corner and say &quot;defend me.&quot; He's going to stop talking, they've won. - Lauren Gelman, Director of public policy, EFF&quot;


