---
layout: post
title: "Typo 3"
date: 2002-05-07 14:01
comments: true
categories: Web Development
author: Oliver Thylmann
---


If anyone of you is looking for a content management system for your web site and you are using IE, you need to consider [Typo 3](http://www.typo3.org/), a very powerful free system. I am currently thinking about using it myself but need to look further into how  well it works for live updating pages and things. Probably very well as it is based on PHP but this might require some scripting, meaning writing the layout/interaction of the page within the Type 3 Script. The interface is just amazing though and you can do anything. I would even consider this one amazing if it cost money. 

You can for example make different users and say exactly which kind of access they have, which is nice, but above that you can also say which different function these people will be able to use. Obviously, they will only see those functions they can use. So you can give somebody the right to write stories, edit them, but not the right to put them on the front page and viewable by everybody.

You have a real text editor in there with buttons for bold and several templates for sites that makes deploying your site easily. If you want to change the template you go to a screen that has a screenshot of the layout, with numbers floating above it telling you what each section is and what you can edit in that section. change the logo, the background color, the way the links appear (in automatically generated gif images for example with mouse-over effects and everything).

The only request the author has is emm... not using it for anything that is against the bibel, as he is a christ with all his mind and body and soul. Check it out, seriously.


